TO THE THURSDAY,
MARCH 9TH, TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA
ZOOME MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO
WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO IN PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO
SPEAK AT THE PUBLIC COMMENT
CALL 206 THREE THREE SEVEN NINE
SEVEN TWO THREE OR TWO ONE
THREE THREE THREE EIGHT EIGHT
FOUR SEVEN SEVEN OR TOLL FREE
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN ENTER
MEETING IDX NINE SIX FIVE THREE
SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN SIX
TWO.
>> THAT INFORMATION'S ALSO ON
THE PUBLISHED AGENDA.
IT IS IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
IT'S ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CHANNEL SIXTEEN AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND ONLINE
W DOT EIGHT TO GOV AGUAJE WATCH
CTM SO WE WILL CONDUCT THIS
MEETING SIMILAR TO AN IN-PERSON
MEETING WE'VE ALREADY HAD OUR
TECHNICAL ISSUE BUT IF WE HAVE
ANOTHER ONE PLEASE BEAR WITH
US.
OK MISS THATCHER WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE RULE.
>> YES THANK YOU PRESIDENT FOR
THAT COMMISSIONER US PRESIDENT
COMMISSIONER SHORTENER
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE
COMMISSIONER EVERSON,
COMMISSIONER WHITE AND
COMMISSIONER KIATO, YOU DO HAVE
A QUORUM SO YOU WILL NEED THREE
POSITIVE VOTES TO PASS A
MOTION.
OK, THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
SO NOW WE WILL GO TO A APPROVAL
OF AGENDA AND I'M WONDERING IF
THERE'S ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA AND I HAVE KNOWN OK,
SEEING NONE AND HEARING NO
OBJECTION THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED AND NOW
WE WILL GO TO SECTION D THIS IS
PUBLIC COMMENT THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT ON
THE LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
SO PLEASE PLEASE CALL THE
NUMBER THAT I READ EARLIER OR
RAISE YOUR HAND IN THE MEETING
AND CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS ONE BY ONE USING THEIR
LAST THREE DIGITS OR RAISED
HAND AND IN ORDER TO RAISE YOUR
HAND ON THE PHONE, PRESS STAR
NINE AND YOU WILL HEAR
INSTRUCTION AND ANYONE WE DO
CALL HER WHOSE NUMBER THREE
FOUR FIVE.
I AM ALLOWING YOU TO TALK
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME.
>> HI MY NAME IS KITTY AND I
LIVE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND I'M
CALLING IN ABOUT THEIR PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT FOR FOUR FIFTEEN
WITH WASHINGTON STREET.
I KNOW YOU'LL BE DISCUSSING
THEIR PROJECT AT YOUR WORKING
SESSION LATER BUT I'M UNABLE TO
ATTEND IN PERSON SO I'M CALLING
IN INSTEAD I WILL BE QUOTING
FROM THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES OF TWO HUNDRED IN
2012.
IF THERE ARE ANY MORE RECENT
GUIDELINES PLEASE TELL ME WHERE
I CAN FIND THEM.
BUT IN ANY CASE THIS IS FROM A
SECTION OF NEW CONSTRUCTION IN
A HISTORIC DISTRICT NOT
APPROPRIATE INTRODUCING ANY NEW
BUILDING THAT IS OUT OF SCALE
OR OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE TO
THE SETTINGS HISTORIC CHARACTER
INTRODUCING A NEW FEATURE THAT
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE WITH
OR THAT DESTROYS THE PATTERN
OF THE SITE OR THE DISTRICT
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
ONTO A SITE OR IN A DISTRICT
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN.
MATEER ORIELS AND TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROYS RELATIONSHIPS ON
THE SITE OR THE DISTRICT
UNQUOTE.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT FOR
450 WEST WASHINGTON IS IN NO
WAY APPROPRIATE TO THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT IS NOT COMPATIBLE IN TERMS
OF SIZE AND SCALE AND IT WOULD
DESTROY RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
PLEASE DO NOT APPROVE THIS
PLAN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE?
WE DO HAVE ONE MORE CALLER
WHOSE PHONE ENDS IN FIVE THREE
FOUR.
I'M ALLOWING YOU TO TALK NOW
COLOR ENDING IN FIVE THREE FOUR
THAT EVENING.
THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG I'M
CALLING FROM MOTOWN IN ANN
ARBOR AND I'M A FORMER HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSIONER SIX YEARS
CHAIR FOR TWO YEARS AND
FOLLOWING ON FROM THE PREVIOUS
CALLER ABOUT THE WORKING
SESSIONS YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
ON YOUR TEAM WITH WASHINGTON.
IT HAS PAST WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
LET ME REPHRASE THAT AND
RECOMMEND FOR APPROVAL BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THE NEXT STEP WILL GO TO CITY
COUNCIL.
HOWEVER, THIS APPLICATION IS
HIGHLY FLAWED AND I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT YOU FOCUS YOUR ON
WHAT THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION GUIDELINES ARE.
SOME OF THOSE WERE JUST READ BY
THE PREVIOUS CALL BUT ALSO LIKE
TO MENTION THAT WHEN COMPARING
THIS TO OTHER BUILDINGS THE
APPLICANT IS COMPARING IT TO
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES
INSIDE A DISTRICT SUCH AS THE
MARK AND MOOI AND THEY'RE
COMPARING IT TO OTHER
STRUCTURES THAT ARE OUTSIDE
OF THE DISTRICT.
YOUR ATTENTION SHOULD BE ON
COMPARING THIS APPLICATION TO
THE CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES
INSIDE THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
>> YOU'RE ALSO GOING TO HEAR
ALL THESE COMPETING INTERESTS.
THIS SITE IS A CLEANUP.
THERE'S AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ISSUES THAT SHOULD NOT BE THE
FOCUS OF YOUR DECISION.
YOU SHOULD BE FOCUSING ON THE
CRITERIA OF A HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
THERE'S ALSO DOUBT THAT THIS
APPLICATION IS EVEN LEGAL.
I SPOKE WITH AN ATTORNEY ABOUT
THIS WHO FEELS IT IS NOT I
WON'T HAVE THE TIME TO ARGUE
THE LEGALITY OF IT.
BUT IN SHORT UNDER THE PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT IN
THE UDC IT SAID THE ZONING
DISTRICT SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED
WERE PRIMARILY TO AVOID THE
IMPOSITION OF STANDARDS AND
REQUIREMENTS OF OTHER ZONING
CLASSIFICATIONS OR OTHER CITY
REGULATIONS.
THIS DOES VERY SPECIFICALLY THE
UDC ALSO STATES THAT FOR
PREMIUM AND THEY'RE USING THESE
TO COMPARISON AS A BASE FOR THE
D TO PREMIUMS THEY APPLY BE
APPLIED ONLY TO LOTS THAT ARE
LOCATED ENTIRELY OUTSIDE OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND CONTAIN
NO PART OF A FLOODPLAIN.
THIS IS A HISTORIC DISTRICT AND
CONTAINS THE WHOLE SITE NEARLY
IS IN A FLOOD PLAIN SO GOING
FROM 60 FEET BACK IN A D TWO TO
70 FEET WITH THE PREMIUM IS NOT
ALLOWED NOR IS IT ALLOWED TO
USE THE PUDI TO EFFECTIVELY DO
THE EXACT SAME THING.
AND WHENEVER THE LAW IS IN
CONFLICT THERE'S ANOTHER STATE
IN THE UDC THAT IS THE STRICTER
STANDARDS SHOULD FLY.
I WON'T MAKE YOU JUDGE BASED ON
THE LEGALITY TONIGHT BUT I DO
THINK YOU SHOULD EMPHASIZE A
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
AND STANDARDS THAT YOU'VE BEEN
GIVEN IN ANALYZING THIS
APPLICATION AND I THINK THAT
YOU SHOULD REJECT IT.
THIS HAS CLEARLY NOT BEEN
DESIGNED TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT HAS BEEN DESIGNED FOR OTHER
PURPOSES AND THEN THEY ARE
TRYING TO DO THEIR BEST TO MAKE
IT SOUND LIKE IT APPLIES BUT IT
DOES NOT.
BUT THAT'S MY OPINION AND I
TRUST A JUDGMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE?
WE JUST GOT A NEW CALL IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC COMMENTARY PLEASE RAISE
YOUR HAND OR HIT STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE
, OK?
I THINK YOU'RE ALL RIGHT.
WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT.
NO, THAT'S STILL TIME.
NOBODY ELSE AT THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
OK, SO THE PUBLIC COMMENT IS
CLOSED MOVING TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS AND THERE IS NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
SO WE WILL MOVE RIGHT TO
HEARINGS AND ON TO HEARING EF1
AND THAT IS FIVE FORTY THREE
DETROIT MISS THATCHER, PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS THE CIRCA EIGHTEEN
FIFTIES THORPE FRANK HOUSE.
IT WAS BEFORE THE D.C. AS
RECENTLY AS DECEMBER TO ADD A
SHED DORMER AND A REAR SLIDER
AND THIS APPLICATION IS
PROPOSING SOME NEW WORK ON THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S ON THE WEST SIDE DETROIT
NORTH OF EAST KINGSLY AND SOUTH
OF NORTH DIVISION AND THE
APPLICANT SEEKING APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT A LOWER LEVEL WALK
OUT ADDITION WITH A ROOF ACCESS
BY THE MAIN FLOOR AND A BUMP
OUT OF THE REAR ELEVATION TO
ADD A POWDER ROOM WINDOW ON THE
REAR ELEVATION AND A GAS
FIREPLACE DIRECT VENT ON THE
NORTH SIDE.
THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION
WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE HERE.
THIS IS THE BACK FROM THE
BACKYARD AT SOME POINT AS
YOU'LL RECALL, SOMEBODY
EXCAVATED THE BACK WALL OF THE
BASEMENT AND MADE IT ALL WALK
OUT OF SORTS.
THE WORK UNDER THE TARP AREA
HAS ALREADY BEEN APPROVED.
YOU GUYS REMEMBER IT?
IT'S SEIDERS GOING IN AND NEW
WINDOWS AN ADDITION IS PROPOSED
UNDER BASICALLY WHERE THE DECK
IS RIGHT NOW.
IT WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT
NARROWER COME OUT A COUPLE
OF FEET FARTHER BUT JUST
IMAGINE A ROOM DOWN HERE
UNDERNEATH THE DECK.
ALSO A SMALL BUMP OUT ON THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE IS PROPOSED
THAT WOULD GO OVER THESE TWO
WINDOWS AND THIS WINDOW WOULD
REMOVED BE REMOVED AND A
SMALLER ONE WOULD BE PLACED TO
THE LEFT OF IT.
I ADDED A COUPLE OF THESE
WINDOWS SLIDE THE SHOTS IN HERE
JUST TO REMIND YOU ALL THAT WE
HAD THE CONVERSATION THAT THIS
WAS NOT A CONTRIBUTING WINDOW
ON THE LEFT.
THIS IS A MODERN WINDOW THAT
WAS WE DON'T KNOW WHEN IT WAS
INSTALLED.
THE WINDOWS ON THE RIGHT APPEAR
TO BE FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
THEY WERE PROBABLY A LATER
EDITION BECAUSE SEE HOW THEY'RE
THERE CUT INTO THE SIDING
INSTEAD OF BUTTED UP TO THE TOP
OF IT WHICH WOULD BE THE USUAL
WAY TO PUT IN AN ORIGINAL
WINDOW OPENING.
BUT AGAIN, THE WINDOWS
THEMSELVES ARE OLD ENOUGH TO BE
FROM THE PERIODS
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND WE DON'T
KNOW WHEN THEY WERE ADDED IN
THERE.
ANOTHER SHOT OF THE BACK THE
YARD I'M ALSO INCLUDED THIS
BECAUSE I WAS SO HAPPY TO SEE
THAT YELLOW FORSYTHIA THERE IN
THE LOWER LEFT HAND CORNER.
IT MADE ME REALLY HAPPY.
THERE IT IS AGAIN.
THIS IS THE NORTH ISH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE HERE ON THE LEFT
THE THE DIRECT VENT FOR A NEW
FIREPLACE WOULD GO RIGHT ON
THIS STUCCO PURGED WALL HERE
AND THIS IS WHERE IT IS OVER
HERE.
IT'S KIND OF BELOW WHERE THIS
METER IS LOCATED NOW IT'S JUST
BACK HERE IN THE BACK CORNER
WHICH IS STAFF THINKS IS A
PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE PLACE FOR
A VENT SUCH AS THIS LOOKING TO
EITHER SIDE WHEN YOU'RE
STANDING ON THE DECK.
THIS IS THE THIS IS THE HOUSE
TO THE SOUTH BETWEEN THIS HOUSE
AND TREASURE MART AND THIS IS
THE ONE TO THE NORTH WHICH HAS
HAD A PRETTY RECENT ADDITION
PUT ON THE BACK.
IT'S THIS TAN PART AND
EVERYTHING BEHIND IT SO YOU CAN
SEE THAT THESE ARE BOTH FAIRLY
DEEP HOUSES.
THEY'RE BOTH MUCH DEEPER THAN
THIS ONE CURRENTLY IS THE PLANS
THIS IS THIS IS THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THE NEW ROOM HERE.
IT'S CLAD IN NOT A IT'S NOT A
FAKE STONE BUT IT'S A CUT STONE
FACING YOU CAN SEE THAT THE
DECK SITS ON TOP OF IT.
IT HAS A CORNER WINDOW.
THESE ARE CASEMENT'S NEW BUMPE
HERE IS ON THE BACK.
HERE'S THE LITTLE NEW POWDER
ROOM WINDOW HAS A TRIPLE WINDOW
ACROSS THE BACK.
THIS IS STARFIELD.
THIS IS MUCH MORE APPROPRIATE
THAN THE WINDOW THAT WAS
PROPOSED LAST TIME AROUND.
THE LITTLE DORMER UP HERE HAS
ALREADY BEEN APPROVED BUT IT
HASN'T BUILT YET SO YOU DON'T
SEE IT IN THE PICTURES.
ALL THE WORK YOU SEE HERE, THE
FRONT ELEVATION HAS ALREADY
BEEN APPROVED.
THE DORMERS UP HERE AT THE TOP
THIS IS THE THE DRIVEWAY SIDE
ELEVATION.
YOU CAN SEE THE BUMP OUT HERE
AND RIGHT NOW THIS IS JUST A
SHOT IS A FLAT DECK.
THE RAILINGS NOT DRAWN BUT IT'S
IT'S DOESN'T IT'S NOT GOING TO
LOOK MUCH DIFFERENT FROM THE
SIDE THAN THAT DOES NOW HERE WE
ARE ON THE BACK.
WE'VE GOT THE DECK ON THE BACK
AND UNDERNEATH IT IS THE NEW
ROOM THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN
APPROVED AND HERE WE HAVE A NEW
PUMP OUT WITH A LITTLE ROOF AND
A POWDER ROOM WINDOW NEXT TO
IT.
THE RAILING DESIGN WOULD MATCH
THE RAILING THAT'S ALREADY
THERE ON THE BACK DECK AND THIS
IS LOOKING FROM THE NORTH SIDE
.
THIS IS PROBABLY THE BIGGEST
VIEWSHED CHANGE JUST BECAUSE
YOU'RE SEEING THIS WALL NOW
WHERE RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST OPEN
DECK AND HERE'S WHERE THE VENT
IS LOCATED.
I HAVE ALL OF THE PLANS.
I DON'T THINK WE NEED MANY
OF THEM BUT THIS IS THE
EXISTING OH THE A.C. UNIT MOVES
OVER HERE TO THE SIDE.
BUT THAT WAS BEFORE YOU AT THE
LAST MEETING.
HERE'S THE FOOTPRINT OF THE NEW
ADDITIONS OFF THE BACK.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT'S INSET
WELL IN FROM THE CORNER ON THIS
SIDE AND THE OTHER SIDE YOU CAN
SEE HOW THAT THE WALL JOGS.
THIS IS ALL NEW WALL.
IT'S BEEN REPLACED AT SOME
POINT IN RECENT HISTORY AND THE
NEW WALL IS JUST AN EXTENSION
OF THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT'S REALLY QUITE
APPROPRIATE GIVEN THAT THAT'S
AN INTERIOR WALL AND IT'S BEEN
REPLACED AND THIS IS THE CORNER
OF THE HOUSE THAT I'M MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE MAIN LEVEL
PLAN EXISTING AND HERE IT IS
PROPOSED YOU CAN SEE THE BUMP
OUT HERE AND THE NEW LITTLE
POWDER ROOM.
ANY OF YOU THAT WE'RE ABLE TO
STICK YOUR HEADS IN AND SEE
THIS KITCHEN ON THE LAST SITE
VISIT WE DIDN'T WE DIDN'T GO IN
AT ALL.
BUT WE JUST WE'RE LOOKING AT
SOME OF THE GUTTED WALLS HERE
AND IT'S IT'S A LITTLE A LITTLE
TINY TINY SPACE THIS WELL THIS
WOULD CERTAINLY OPEN THE WHOLE
THING UP AND MAKE A LOT MORE
FUNCTIONAL AND ALSO MOVING SOME
OF THESE INTERIOR WALLS AND
THIS IS THE UPPER LEVEL
.
THE ONLY CHANGE UP HERE IS THE
DORMER WHICH HAS ALREADY BEEN
APPROVED LOTS OF PICTURES AND
THEN THERE'S NICE RENDERING
HERE.
THAT WAS PART OF THE PROPOSAL.
THE ROOF RACK WOULD BE A CEDAR
ROOF DECK IS SITTING ON TOP
OF THE ROOF.
I MENTIONED THAT I WOULD HAVE A
WOOD RAILING SYSTEM.
THE BUMP OUT IS TWO FEET SIX
INCHES DEEP AND 11 FEET WIDE
AND THAT'S PRETTY MUCH IT FOR
STAFF COMMENTS.
THERE ARE SOME THERE'S WINDOW
DETAILS.
THESE ARE MARVIN WINDOWS.
BUT LET ME GO THROUGH THE
SECRETARY INTERIOR STANDARDS
THAT BEST APPLY.
NO ONE SAYS THE PROPERTY WILL
BE USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY
OR BE GIVEN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS, FEATURE
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
NUMBER TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED,
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MACING SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT AND NO.10 SAYS NEW
ADDITIONS AND ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY WILL UNIMPAIRED FROM
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A NEW
ADDITIONS THAT THERE'S THE
LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS OF HISTORIC
MATERIALS SO THAT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE NOT
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
ALSO RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO ATTACH
NEW ADDITIONS THAT THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
OR TO DESIGN A NEW ADDITIONS
THAT THE SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATION TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ARE OUT OF PROPORTION,
THUS DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL ADDITIONS
APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT THE SIZE
AND SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING SO IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING OR THE DISTRICT
EDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD NOT
EXCEED ONE HALF OF THE
BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT OR ONE
HALF OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING'S
TOTAL FLOOR AREA.
AND THIS I DIDN'T MENTION IT
BUT THIS IS UNDER 50 PERCENT ON
BOTH OF THOSE ACCOUNTS.
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
RADICALLY CHANGE A WINDOW THAT
IS IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE PROPERTY AND THAT'S IT
FOR STAFF'S COMMENTS.
I DO THINK THAT THIS IS AN
APPROPRIATE DESIGN AND CREATIVE
USE OF AN ALREADY EXCAVATED
BACKYARD AND I DO THINK THAT IT
MEETS THE SECRETARY INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MISS THATCHER MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER WILLIS ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
SO DO YOU WANT TO GO GIVE US
YOUR RECOMMENDATION A REPORT?
I WOULD SAY I AGREE WITH
EVERYTHING IN THE STAFF REPORT
.
I FELT LIKE IT'S A VERY
THOUGHTFUL PLACEMENT INTO HOW
THE HOUSE DURING THE EXPANDED
AND I THOUGHT IT REALLY FITS
ALL THE CRITERIA ON IT AND I
THINK IT'LL BE A LOVELY
ADDITION.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO AGREE WITH WITH THE
STAFF REPORT AND WITH WITH
COMMISSIONER WILLIS THE YEAH I
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD
ACTUALLY SO LET'S JUST MOVE ON
LET'S SEE WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE COME FORWARD PROVIDED
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS THERE YOU
CAN BOTH COME IF YOU WANT NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
PLEASE AND THEN JUST YOU HAVE
FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD BASED ON
THE STAFF REPORT OF THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
YEAH I'LL THANK YOU FOR THE
DESIGNER ON THIS WORKING WITH
CHLOE I'M CHLOE SHERMAN.
JUST CHANGE THE NAME OF TO IN
THE HOUSE SO YOU GUYS HAVING
FUN?
I MEAN I'M HAPPY WITH WHAT YOU
GUYS SAID.
I MEAN THERE'S NOT A WHOLE LOT
MORE I THINK WE WE'VE WORKED A
LOT FROM THE LAST SUBMISSION TO
TRY AND MAKE SOMETHING THAT'S,
YOU KNOW, MORE COMPATIBLE WITH
NEIGHBORHOOD VERY THANK YOU.
OK, SORRY COMMISSIONER.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT?
DIDN'T MEAN TO YOU MIGHT HAVE
QUESTIONS OR YEAH.
YEAH SORRY JIMMY.
YES I WOULD SAY OH THANK YOU.
I USE THE CHOICE OF THE
MATERIALITY OF THE WALL FOR THE
NEW KIND OF A DECISION AT THE
BELOW THE PORCH AND HOW HOW
THAT'S HOW YOU FEEL IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE SORT
OF CHARACTER.
SO ON TWO OF THE SIDES KIND
OF THE STREET FACING SIDE AND
THEN THE DRIVEWAY FACING SIDE
THE ORIGINAL STONE FOUNDATION
IS VISIBLE.
IT'S JUST THE ONE SIDE WHERE
THE THE VENT IS GOING FOR THE
FIREPLACE WHERE THERE WAS A
LARGE COAT STUCK A PARKED CAR
PUT OVER IT.
SO SO WE THINK THAT KIND OF A
NATURAL STONE BUT IT WOULD BE A
ONE INCH VENEER NEAR HERE WOULD
WOULD MATCH TO THE ORIGINAL
KIND OF RUBBLE FOUNDATION
THAT'S THERE AT LEAST FROM
APPEARANCE AND THAT'S GOING TO
LAST THAT YEAR SHE'S 163
.
THANK YOU TO THE HERE SOMEWHERE
THERE THERE IT IS WHEN I SEE I
KNOW I'M NOT SHARING IT.
GOT IT
AND SO ON.
THIS DOCTOR BRINGS THAT UP SO
WILL YOU BE ABLE TO SEE THAT
PART AT ALL FROM A PUBLIC RIGHT
AWAY OR IS IT JUST LIKE LIKE
SUPER WELL TUCKED BACK THERE?
IT'S WELL TUCKED IN.
I DON'T THINK YOU'D BE ABLE TO
SEE ANY OF THE ADDITIONS IN
THAT IT'S BELOW GRADE AND FROM
THE STREET SIDE IN THE PHOTO
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT YOU CAN
ACTUALLY SEE THE HANDRAIL
THROUGH IF YOU LOOK THROUGH THE
PORCH THERE WHERE THE CURSOR
IS.
YES, THAT'S THE HANDRAIL THAT
WILL BE ON TOP OF THE BASEMENT
EDITION AND THIS IS BASICALLY
FROM THE SIDEWALK IS ACTUALLY
CLOSER THAN THE SIDEWALK.
SO THAT'S THE CORNER OF THE TOP
OF THE BASEMENT.
SO IT'S IT SEEMS UNLIKELY LIKE
JUST SAYING THAT YOU WOULD SEE
BECAUSE IT'S JUST THOSE TWO
SIDES THAT HAVE THE STONE
VENEER.
WELL, NO, I'M SAYING THE TWO
SIDES OF THE ORIGINAL HOUSE
HAVE THAT STONE OK IN THE TRUE
STONE RIGHT THERE THAT THE
CURSE IS RUNNING OVER.
SO THAT'S THE FRONT AND THEN AS
IT TURNS THE BACK WHERE THAT
PIECE OF OSB IS ON THE NEW
EDITION, ALL SIDES THREE SIDES
EXPOSED WILL HAVE THE VENEER
VENEER.
BUT ON THE IS THAT THE SOUTH
SIDE THAT'S WHERE THE EARTH IS
COMING BACK UP.
RIGHT.
THE GREAT IS COMING SOON.
YEAH.
AND THERE'S VERY YOU'LL SEE
VERY LITTLE OF IT THERE BECAUSE
OF THIS AFTER LIKE A SHEET OR
SOMETHING ASSOCIATED WITH THAT
WITH THE STONE.
I DO THAT AND YEAH I'M SORRY I
USUALLY ASK FOR THOSE BUT I
THINK I PUT IT OUT OF MY MIND
BECAUSE I DIDN'T THINK YOU
WOULD BE ABLE TO SEE IT FROM
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY SO IT
DIDN'T REALLY ALARM ME.
OK OK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
COMMISSIONERS HERE FOR OK IN
THAT CASE I WOULD NOW LIKE TO
OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT FIVE FORTY THREE
DETROIT SO AT THIS POINT EITHER
HIT STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE OR
RAISE YOUR HAND IN THE ZOOM
SCREEN NO ONE HERE PRESENT IS
COMING TO THE PODIUM SO NO ONE
IS WAITING VIRTUALLY NO.
SO I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
COMMENT AND I WILL I WILL NOW
ASK ONE OF THE COMMISSIONERS IF
THEY WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION ON THIS APPLICATION.
COMMISSIONER ROSS, I MOVE THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION FIVE FOUR
THREE DETROIT STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT A LOWER
LEVEL WALK ADDITION WITH A ROOF
DECK AND A BUMP OUT OF THE REAR
ELEVATION AND ADD A POWDER ROOM
WINDOW ON THE REAR ELEVATION
AND A GAS FIREPLACE DIRECT VENT
ON THE NORTH SIDE ELEVATION AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE SURROUNDING
RESOURCES AND MEETS ARE THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANAGE STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING STAFF
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS BUILDING SITE AND
WINDOWS TO THE SECOND ON THE
MOTION.
OK THAT IS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WILLIS.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION I MEAN
I THE SAME QUESTION ABOUT
VISION FROM THE RIGHT PLACE BUT
I JUST LOOKED AT YOU CAN'T SEE
ON
YOU I THINK I WOULD HAVE A I
MEAN NOT MR. PROBLEM BUT KIND
OF QUESTIONING THE CHOICE
OF MATERIALITY.
BUT SINCE IT CAN'T BE SEEN FROM
THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY I GUESS
I'M GOING TO GO WITH IT.
JUST CURIOUS WHAT IS THE
CONCERN AS I GUESS I DON'T KNOW
HOW THE BOARD FEEL THAT IT IS
TO THE HISTORIC FABRIC THE
BUILDING.
YEAH, SO THAT'S THAT'S KIND
OF YEAH.
OK, I LIKE THIS COMPANY.
UNDERSTOOD.
I TOOK COMMISSIONER WILLIS I
WOULD JUST SAY THAT SOMETIMES
WE HAVE TO REALLY THINK ABOUT
HOW THE OLD WITH THE NEW AND
WHEN YOU SEE THE WHEN YOU'RE
STANDING THERE IS ABSOLUTELY
YOU CAN'T SEE IT FROM THE
STREET BUT WE SEE THAT THERE
WITH THE OF THE YARD AND THE
STAIRS AND WHAT ALREADY EXISTS
CONCRETE WALL THERE'S LIKE A
LOOKS APPEARS TO BE LIKE A
STONE KIND OF RETAINING WALL
BACK THERE.
IT MAKES IT MAKES WHEN YOU SEE
IT SURE THERE.
BUT YOU DEFINITELY CAN'T HELP
IN THE STREET.
OK OK.
YEAH I THINK THIS IS IT'S A THE
PROJECT IS BENEFITING FROM
REALLY NOT BEING ABLE TO SEE
WHAT THE ADDITION IS WHICH IS
FINE.
THAT'S WHY THE REAR YARD
EDITIONS ARE PREFERRED IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND I THINK
THAT LITTLE THE BUMP OUT THAT
WAS CREATED IN THE KITCHEN
THERE IS IS VERY COMPATIBLE.
I MEAN I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY
LIKE RIGHT ON THE EDGE OF WHAT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE IN TERMS
OF DIFFERENTIATE IT'S LIKE SO
COMPATIBLE BUT I THINK IT'S
THERE.
SO IS THERE ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION OK, LET'S VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
SO THE MOTION CARRIES YOU'RE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
YOU'VE PROBABLY ALREADY GOTTEN
PERMITS BUT I'M TO REMIND YOU
THAT YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO GET
PERMITS BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT SO THANK YOU.
OK, MOVING ON TO F TWO AND I
SEE IT'S CROSSED OUT BUT IT'S
ON THE AGENDA.
SO DOES THAT MEAN WE ARE GOING
TO DISCUSS ANYTHING OR ARE WE
JUST GOING WE ARE HEARING WE
ARE NOT WE DO NEED TO HOLD A
PUBLIC HEARING VERY ITEM F TWO
ALTHOUGH IT DIDN'T MAKE IT THIS
FAR.
GOT IT.
OK, SO THIS IS SIX THIRTY FOUR
TURNER PARK COURT.
I'D LIKE TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM F TWO SIX
THIRTY FOR TURNER PARK COURT
RAISE YOUR HAND OR HIT STAR
NINE.
NO ONE IS HERE NOW AND NO ONE'S
ON MINE.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR F TWO AND
WE'LL MOVE ON TO F THREE TO
TWENTY SIX S SEVENTH STREET.
MISS THATCHER, THE STAFF
REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THIS ADDRESS FIRST APPEARS IN
CITY DIRECTORIES IN NINETEEN
HUNDRED AS THE HOME OF LABOR
JOHN GOUSSE AND CARVER FRANK
GROF BOTH OF WHOM WERE RENTERS
FEATURES A STONE FOUNDATION AND
GREEK REVIVAL FEATURES THAT ARE
UNUSUAL FOR A HOUSE.
THIS YOUNG CORNER RETURNS A
SEDIMENTED FRONT STOOP AND
PAIRED SIDELIGHTS ON THE FRONT
DOOR.
HELPFUL INFORMATION ABOUT THE
CONSTRUCTION OF THE HOUSE IS
INCLUDED WITH THE APPLICATION
ATTACHMENTS.
THERE'S A SMALL REAR EDITION
WITH A SHED ROOF THAT'S FROM
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANT
THERE'S A SMALL ONE STOREY
MODERN EDITION ON THE NORTH
SIDE ELEVATION AND THE HOUSE IS
COVERED IN ASBESTOS TILES.
THE APPEARANCE AND MATERIAL
OF THE UNDERLYING CLADDING IS
UNKNOWN.
WE ARE ON THE WEST SIDE
OF SOUTH 75TH STREET SOUTH WEST
WASHINGTON IN NORTH OF MEMORY
COURT.
IT'S IN THE FLOODPLAIN OF AN
ALLEN CREEK TRIBUTARY TO THE
APPLICANT SEEKING APPROVAL TO
CONSTRUCT A SCREEN PORCH IN
MUDROOM ON THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE A SMALL SHED DORMER ON
THE NORTH FACING ROOF FOUR
STAIR HEADROOM AND A TWO STOREY
GARAGE IN THE REAR YARD AND TO
INSTALL TWO NEW SLIDING GLASS
DOORS ON THE NORTH ADDITION AND
THE NORTH WALL OF THE HOUSE
BEHIND THE ADDITION.
SO HERE WE ARE AT THE HOUSE
UNTIL SEVEN.
JUST TO THE LEFT IS WATERWORKS
PARK AND THE OWNERS OF THIS
HOUSE ARE THE OWNERS OF THE
HOUSE NEXT DOOR THE RED HOUSE
WHICH YOU MAY RECOGNIZE FROM AN
APPLICATION A YEAR OR TWO AGO.
SO WELCOME BACK.
THEY'VE NOW GOT THE YELLOW
HOUSE AND ARE WORKING ON AN
ADDITION FOR THIS ONE INSTEAD
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE ARE SOME
OLD WINDOWS, SOME NEW WINDOWS
ON THIS HOUSE.
THIS IS THE THIS IS THE
ADDITION THE BACK THAT'S FROM
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
NOTE THAT THE DRIVEWAY COMES IN
HERE.
THERE'S A LITTLE YELLOW SHED
HERE, A TWO STOREY BUILDING
WITH A GARAGE ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AND AN EIGHTY TWO ON THE
SECOND STORE IS PROPOSED BACK
THERE BEHIND THE SHED.
I'LL SHOW YOU PHOTOS IN JUST A
SEC.
RIGHT NOW THE ROOF OVER THIS
SMALL REAR EDITION EXTENDS TO
AN UNDISCLOSED PORCH.
IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S OPEN ON TWO
SIDES.
LOOKS LIKE MAYBE SOMEBODY HAD
IT SCREENED IN AT SOME POINT
BUT IT'S NOT RIGHT NOW AND THIS
IS THE MODERN EDITION HERE ON
THE LEFT HAND SIDE THERE USED
TO BE AN OPEN PORCH ON THIS
SIDE OF THE HOUSE TOO THAT WAS
REPLACED WITH THIS SLIGHTLY
LARGER SIDE WING.
OK, HERE'S THE PORCH ON THE
SIDE.
THIS IS SUPPOSED TO BE ENCLOSED
THE SAME FOOTPRINT, SAME ROOF,
SAME TRIM UP TOP HERE AND
EVERYTHING BUT TO JUST BE CLOSE
TO BECOME A MUSHROOM AND THEN
THIS WILL BECOME THE MORE
FORMAL BACK DOOR LEADING INTO
THE MUSHROOM WHICH THEN LEADS
INTO THE HOUSE.
HERE'S THE OTHER SIDE OF THAT
JUST LET ME SEE IF YOU CAN SEE
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT THIS
IS LIKE I KNOW THIS IS LIKE THE
COOLEST THING TO RUN ACROSS
THESE SOFTS UP HERE ARE
PRESTATYN WHICH IS KIND
OF CRAZY AND YOU DON'T SEE THAT
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE VERY OFTEN
AND THEY GO ALL THE WAY AROUND
THE HOUSE AND IT LOOKS LIKE
IT'S SUPPOSED TO LOOK LIKE LIKE
THREE OR FOUR LAYERS OF TRIM
BUT THEY ARE FORMED OUT
OF METAL.
THEY'RE HATCHED AT MOST OF THE
CORNERS.
I WAS WONDERING IF MAYBE THEY
WERE AN INTERNAL GUTTER SYSTEM
BUT JUST CAN'T TELL FROM FROM
THIS ANGLE THIS IS A BETTER
VIEW OF THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
THAT WAS PART THE APPLICATION
MATERIALS.
THIS IS WHAT YOU SEE IF YOU'RE
STANDING ON A SIDEWALK.
I ALWAYS TRY TO GET THE THE
WIDEST ANGLE VIEW OF THE
BACKYARD AND SO A ONE STOREY
SCREEN PORCH WOULD COME OFF
OF THE BACK OF THE HOUSE HERE
WHERE THE WHERE THE PINK
CAUTION TAPE IS SO YOU CAN SEE
THE EXTENT OF HOW BIG THAT
FOOTPRINT WOULD BE.
HERE'S THE SHED THAT WOULD BE
REPLACED WITH A LARGER GARAGE
STRUCTURE AND HERE'S THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE GARAGE
STRUCTURE.
I BELIEVE IT'S TWENTY BY TWENTY
WHICH IS A PRETTY STANDARD SIZE
FOR A TWO CAR GARAGE.
IT WOULD BE ENTERED THE THE THE
OVERHEAD DOOR WOULD BE ON THE
FRONT FACING THE STREET SO YOU
WOULD GO IN DIRECTLY.
ALL RIGHT.
EXISTING SITE IS ON THE LEFT S7
STREET IS AT THE TOP AND THE
PROPOSED HERE IS ON THE BOTTOM.
THIS IS REALLY HELPFUL BECAUSE
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF JUGS BACK
HERE.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS WHERE THE
MUDROOM EXISTS AND WOULD BE
CLOSED AND THEN THIS HASHED
AREA IS NEW SCREEN PORCH
SQUARING OFF THE BACK END
OF THE HOUSE.
THEN THE NEW TWO STOREY GARAGE
WOULD BE OVER HERE AT THE END
OF THE DRIVEWAY.
HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW AGAIN BACK
PORCHES HERE BECOMES THE NEW
MUDROOM HAS A DOOR AND HAS A
DOOR TO THE SIDE AND THIS IS
THE NEW SCREEN PORCH.
IT'S SET IN FOUR INCHES FROM
THIS REAR CORNER AND IT'S SET
IN FOUR INCHES FROM THE MUDROOM
CORNER TO DISTINGUISH IT, NEW
SLIDERS ARE LOCATED ON THIS
WALL AND THIS WALL.
THIS IS THE MODERN EDITION.
THIS IS A WALL THAT LOOKS LIKE
IT HAS ONE WINDOW RIGHT NOW
EXISTING AND PROPOSED SECOND
FLOOR.
OH, I MISSED THAT.
THERE'S A LITTLE DORMER
PROPOSED ON THE SIDE.
WE WILL SEE WHEN WE GET TO THE
ELEVATIONS TO GIVE HEADROOM TO
MAKE THIS MORE USABLE, MORE
LEGAL STAIRCASE TO GET UPSTAIRS
.
OK, THIS IS THE EXISTING AND
REVISED FRONT ELEVATION.
HERE'S THE DORMERS.
IT'S VERY SHALLOW AND IT'S
QUITE NARROW.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
EXTREMELY INCANS BECAUSE NO
CHANGES ARE PROPOSED ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION THIS EXISTING HIP
ROOF IS WRAPPED AROUND THE
CORNER AND CUT OUT FROM AROUND
THE EXISTING BEDROOM WINDOW
HERE ON THE SIDE.
THIS IS TO KEEP SOME SYMMETRY
TO THE TO THE THE ROOF OF THE
SCREEN ROOM.
I THINK THAT THERE WERE A DOUBT
THAT IF YOU JUST EXTENDED THIS
AROUND THE CORNER THAT IT WOULD
WORK WELL TO TIE IT IN.
THIS LOOKS LIKE IT'S A LITTLE
BIT TOO HIGH.
SO THIS IS A CREATIVE WAY TO
KEEP ALL OF THE LIGHT AND
ACCESS THAT THEY HAVE IN THIS
BEDROOM EGRESS WINDOW BUT STILL
WRAP THAT PORCH AROUND.
I'M NOT CONCERNED ABOUT THE
LOSS OF THIS HIP ON THE BACK
OF THE ADDITION BECAUSE THIS IS
AS I SAID, A MODERN EDITION
METAL SCREENING, A TRIM PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD SCREEN PORCH
JUST YOU KNOW, ON POST THIS IS
THE INTERIOR VIEW WHERE YOU CAN
SEE THE NEW DOOR TO THE MUDROOM
AND THE NEW SLIDER'S GO I THINK
INTO THE DINING ROOM AND THIS
IS THE OTHER VIEW OF THE
INTERIOR OF THE SCREEN PORCH
WITH THE OTHER SET OF SLIDERS
AND THIS IS THIS IS A NEW
HALF-LIGHT DOOR THAT SPECS ARE
INCLUDED FOR IN THE PACKET
EXISTING WEST ELEVATION.
THIS IS WHAT IT WOULD LOOK LIKE
FROM THE BACK.
YOU'VE GOT THE NEW ROOF FOR THE
SCREEN ROOM.
YOU'VE GOT THE EXISTING ROOF
THE WAY IT WAS FOR THE REAR
EDITION AND THE NEW BEDROOM
DOOR THAT'S BEEN SORT
OF EXTRUDED OUT.
OK, MOVING ON TO THE GARAGE
FIRST FLOOR IT'S A TWO CAR
GARAGE.
THERE'S STAIRS ON THE SIDE
FACING THE YARD FACING BACK
YARD I BELIEVE IT IS AN
EXTERIOR STAIR SUPER
STRAIGHTFORWARD KITCHEN BATH,
LIVING ROOM, DINING ROOM AIDOO
OR EXTRA SPACE.
HERE'S THE OVERHEAD DOOR.
IT IS SUPPOSED TO BE A SINGLE
OVERHEAD DOOR INSTEAD OF TO IN
ORDER TO MINIMIZE THE THE THE
WIDTH OF THE BUILDING.
IT'S HARD TO GET TO ROLL UP
DOORS INTO A 20 FOOT A
FOUNDATION FOR A GARAGE.
THIS IS ALSO IN THE FLOODPLAIN
SO IT DOES HAVE THE OPEN DESIGN
THE FLOOD WALLS THESE ARE OPEN
THESE ARE NOT BATTENS.
THESE ARE JUST BOARDS WITH
SPACES IN BETWEEN SO THAT WATER
CAN FLOW THROUGH THE OVERHEAD
DOOR HAS A BREAKAWAY PANEL ON
THE BOTTOM SHOULD THE WATER GET
THAT DEEP IT'LL JUST BLOW OFF
IN THE WATER CAN GO RIGHT
THROUGH SIDE VIEWS.
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD IF
IT REMINDS YOU A LOT OF ONE YOU
SAW RECENTLY IT'S BECAUSE IT'S
A LOT LIKE THE ONE THAT WAS
APPROVED FOR NEXT DOOR.
ALL RIGHT.
I HAVE READ TO YOU STANDARDS
ONE TO NINE AND TEN AND I READ
YOU SOME OF THE ONES FOR
ADDITIONS.
BUT LET ME SEE WHAT WE'VE GOT
HERE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR EDITION AT
THE REAR AN INCONSPICUOUS SIDE
OF HISTORIC BUILDING AND
LIMITING ITS SIZE AND SCALE AND
RELATIONSHIP TO A HISTORIC
BUILDING.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS OR ADJACENT
NEW CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE AND WHICH
PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
BUILDING OR BUILDINGS AND THE
LANDSCAPE FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES SAY IT'S
APPROPRIATE RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS,
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACES LOCATE SHEDS AND GARAGES
IN THE REAR YARD AND USE
EXTERIOR WALL AND ROOF
MATERIALS THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH HISTORIC MATERIALS ON THE
MAIN STRUCTURE AND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ALSO USING A ROOF
SHAPE AND PITCH THAT REPLICATES
THE SHAPE AND PITCH OF THE ROOF
OF THE MAIN STRUCTURE AND USING
WINDOWS AND DOORS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE IN PROPORTION AND
STYLE THE MAIN STRUCTURE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
I WANTED TO ADD THAT THERE IS A
PRETTY BIG TREE THAT'S IN VERY
BAD SHAPE.
IT'S RIGHT BEHIND THE SHED HERE
HERE IT'S THIS ONE RIGHT HERE.
I DON'T BELIEVE IT'S FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE BUT
QUITE FRANKLY IF IT WERE IT
WOULDN'T MATTER.
SEE HOW BOTH THESE TRUNKS BROKE
OFF IN THE STORM LAST WEEK AND
THIS ONE IS MOSTLY DEAD THIS
LARGER LEANING PIECE.
HERE'S THE LARGE LIMBS THAT
FELL OFF OF IT.
SO THERE IS A TREE BACK HERE
THAT THAT IS NOT A HEALTHY TREE
OR A SAVABLE TREE.
SO PUTTING THE GARAGE IN ITS
PLACE WOULD NOT HAVE ANY IMPACT
ON THAT.
AND WITH THAT I DO BELIEVE THAT
THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE
APPLICATION AND I THINK THAT
THE THE THE THE ONE THING THAT
GAVE ME PAUSE WAS THE CREATIVE
USE OF THE ROOFING TO WRAP
AROUND THAT WINDOW ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE MORE
DISRUPTIVE ALMOST TO TO HAVE
THREE DIFFERENT KINDS OF ROOF
STYLES HERE BECAUSE YOU
WOULDN'T WANT TO JUST EXTEND
THIS ONE BECAUSE THIS IS THE
HISTORIC EDITION AND SO YOU GOT
TO GO UP SOMEHOW AND THEN IF
YOU IF YOU HAD THREE DIFFERENT
LEVELS, I JUST I JUST DON'T
THAT I WOULD FIND THAT
COMPATIBLE.
SO I DO THINK THAT THIS MEETS
THE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
AND IS AN APPROPRIATE
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
MISS THATCHER MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER WILLIS WERE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
WE GIVE YOU YOUR REPORT.
I FELT LIKE IT MET THE CRITERIA
THE GUIDELINES THAT ARE
ESTABLISHED BY THE STATE AND
I'M CERTAIN ARE INTERESTED IN
THE THOUGHTS OF THE FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS ABOUT THE WINDOW
AND THE ROOF.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH WHAT I'VE
HEARD SO FAR.
I WILL JUST ADD KIND OF THE
FEELING WHEN YOU'RE IN THE BACK
YARD THERE IT'S VERY EXPANSIVE
ESPECIALLY IN THE WINTERTIME
WITH NO LEAVES ON THE TREES,
THE PARKS NEXT DOOR AND YOU
REALLY HAVE QUITE AN EXPANSIVE
VIEW DOWN THROUGH THE MIDDLE
OF THE BLOCK BECAUSE OF THE
PARK AND I IMAGINE IN THE
SPRING AND SUMMER IT'S QUITE
THE OPPOSITE WHERE BECAUSE
THERE IS QUITE A LOT OF TREES
THERE BUT REGARDLESS YOU WON'T
SEE ANY OF THE ADDITIONS EXCEPT
FOR THE SIDE VIEW FROM THE
SIDEWALK.
OK, SO THAT'S OK.
LET'S LET'S HAVE THE APPLICANT
COME FORWARD.
PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AND IF YOU WANT TO
SPEAK YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES
OR IF YOU JUST ARE OK THEN THEN
YOU CAN SAY THAT ANSWER SOME
QUESTIONS YOU SEE TWENTY SEVEN
STREET HEIDI AND OTTO ARE
WATCHING ON YOUTUBE I'M SURE
THAT WAY I HAVEN'T GOT ANYTHING
FURTHER TO ADD.
OK, THANKS VERY MUCH JAMES
COMEY.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT FROM THE COMMISSION?
OK I DID HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT
THE AIDOO.
I JUST THE ONE WE'RE LOOKING AT
THE DRAWINGS THEY'RE SORT
OF SQUISHED IN AND OUT
OF PROPORTION ON THE ON THE
THING HERE I WAS JUST CURIOUS
IF IS THE ACTU I GUESS I'D SAY
RIGHT ANGLE AND PARALLEL TO THE
STREET OR IS IT SLIGHTLY TURNED
IN A WAY BECAUSE JUST I DON'T
KNOW IF SOMETHING WAS LOOKING
TURNED BUT I JUST WANTED TO BE
CLEAR ABOUT IT FOR SO CARL
SHUTER, THE ARCHITECT ON THE
PROJECT THE ACTU IS PARALLEL TO
THE S PROPERTY LINE WHICH IS
NOT PERPENDICULAR TO THE STREET
SO IT IS TURNED A LITTLE BIT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
SORRY ABOUT IT.
SO THE QUESTION ABOUT THE
FOLLOWING UP IS THE ACTU GOING
TO BE FRONT CABLE FROM THE
STREET OR SIDE GABLED?
IT'S LIKE LIKE OUR PREVIOUS
SUBMISSION LAST EXACTLY TWELVE
MONTHS AGO IT'S YOU'RE GOING TO
SEE THE SIDE OF THE CABLE SO
THE ROOF IS MOVING AWAY FROM
YOU THOUGHT MINECART THE YOU
KNOW THE LARGER MARSING
PRESENCE OF THE BAY WINDOW
LOOKS OUT INTO THE PARK TO THE
SOUTH SO THE FRONT DOOR WILL
YOU'LL SEE THAT OVERHEAD DOOR
FROM THE ON THE STREET GOTCHA.
YES YOU THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
OK, SEE NONE.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM AND SO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES AND I DON'T SEE
ANYONE HERE BUT ANYONE ON THE
PHONE COULD HIT STAR NINE OR
YOU COULD RAISE YOUR HAND IF
YOU'RE IN THE ZOOMER.
NO ONE IS INDICATING OK, WE
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING.
YES.
KARL'S GOT YOU GOING TO SPEAK
AT THE PUBLIC HEARING OR DO YOU
HAVE.
OH, I CAN I CAN SPEAK AFTER IF
YOU'RE ALLOWED.
WE'VE JUST CLOSED.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO JILL ASKED ME TO CLARIFY A
FEW THINGS SO THE WIDTH OF THE
DORMER IS FOUR FOOT FOUR INCHES
THE TOTAL AND WHAT WHEN YOU GO
IN THE HOUSE THE SECOND FLOOR
SIDEWALLS ARE ONLY ABOUT FORTY
EIGHT FIFTY INCHES TALL AND THE
STAIR GOES UP THE SIDE WALL
OF THE HOUSE AND SO WHEN YOU
GET UP TO THE TOP OF THE STAIR
YOU GRADUALLY SHORTER AND THE
STAIRS ARE HAVE A NINE TREAD
AND A NINE INCH RISE OR HEIGHT
SO THEY'RE VERY STEEP SO WE'RE
GOING TO LENGTHEN OUT MOVE THE
LANDING AND WE AND WE PUT THE
HEADROOM IN SO IT'S MORE
COMPLIANT OF COURSE AS WE READ
THROUGH THE ENTIRE PROPERTIES
IN THE FLOOD PLAIN, THE ONLY
ADDITIONS WE CAN DO IN THE
HOUSE ARE OPEN PORCHES ARE
SCREENED PORCHES AND AS JOE
POINTED OUT, THE GARAGE THE
ENTIRE LOWER LEVEL THE GARAGE
IS SORT OF FLOW THROUGH THE
WE'RE STILL WORKING ON FIGURING
OUT THE DATE THE HOUSE I GAVE
JOE SOME INFORMATION ORIGINALLY
I THOUGHT I WOULD BE AROUND
1890 BUT NOW I'M MOVING INTO
THE EIGHTEEN SEVENTIES AND WE
DISCOVER MORE AND MORE
INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT THE
FRAMING OF THE HOUSE AND JUST
LIKE THE PREVIOUS COMMISSION
LAST AS SOON AS WE CAN START
DOING THE ASBESTOS MITIGATION
WE'LL KNOW WHAT THE SIDING IS
AND THEN WE CAN THEN JOSIAS
COME BACK AND SAY WE'RE GOING
TO DO WITH THAT.
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE THAT DONE
BEFORE MY DRAWINGS COME IN SO
IT'S CLEAR WHAT WE'RE DOING
WITH EVERYTHING
.
ALL RIGHT, THAT'S IT.
WHAT ARE WHAT ARE THE MATERIALS
THE EXTERIOR MATERIALS ON THE
DOOR LIKE FASCIA AND SHINGLES?
WELL, IT'LL HAVE ASPHALT
SHINGLES LIKE THE EXISTING ROOF
,THE LITTLE SIDE WALLS THAT
ARE GOING TO BE THERE.
MY HOPE IS BY THE TIME WE'VE
TURNED OFF THE ASBESTOS WE
CAN'T YOU DON'T WANT ME TO APE
WHAT'S THERE SO I'M USING RIGHT
NOW I'M USING FLUSH BOARDS
SIDING ON THE LITTLE THE LITTLE
MUD ROOM WE'RE DOING.
SO I'LL PROBABLY REPEAT THAT UP
THERE.
IT'S SUCH IT'S SUCH A TINY
LITTLE THING THAT THERE
ANYTHING ELSE?
NO, NO MORE QUESTIONS.
IT LOOKS LIKE SO WITH THE
COMMISSIONER
WOULD ANYONE LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS ITEM
FOR APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
BEING FOUND IN THE OLD
UNFORTUNATELY ON THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE A SMALL SHED DOOR
ON THE NORTH FACE AND A TWO
STOREY GARAGE IN THE REAR YARD
AND PUT A STOP TO THE SLIDING
GLASS DOOR AS PROPOSED THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE WITH EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT MATERIALS
RELATIONSHIP TO THE BUILDING
AND THE SURROUNDING AREA AND
MEETS THE CITY MANAGER OF THE
STORE DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TO
NINE AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES
FOR ADDITIONS BUILDING SITE IN
DISTRICT FORTY SEVEN SECOND
VERY GOOD.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
YES I DO STILL HAVE A QUESTION
ON THE DETAIL IN TERMS OF HOW
THE PORCH HOW THE PORCH ROOF
WILL IN A WHILE A PROPORTION
OF THE WALL RIGHT BELOW HOW
THAT'S GOING TO KIND OF MIRROR
UP WITH THE MUD ROOM LIKE I'M
NOT WHAT THAT JUNCTION IS GOING
TO LOOK LIKE.
MAYBE THE WEST ELEVATION OR ARE
WE TALKING ABOUT A CORNER OR
ROOFLINE OR SO IT WRAPS AROUND
THE CORNER.
SO WHEN YOU'RE LIKE AT THE REAR
ELEVATION WHEN THE PORCH ROOF
IS LIKE YEAH, I'M JUST KIND
OF CURIOUS ON WHAT THAT
JUNCTION IT LOOKS LIKE.
SO THE SCREEN PORCH ROOF IS
GOING TO COME AROUND AND
PLAYING IS NORTHERN ADDITION
AND THEN IT'S GOING TO BREAK AS
WE GET TO THE OLD ADDITION
BECAUSE WE WANT TO
DIFFERENTIATE THE OLD AND THE
NEW SO IT'LL BE ONE OF THE OLD
ADDITION HAS A LOWER ROOF
PITCHED AND THE PORCH WILL HAVE
A LITTLE BIT HIGHER ROOF PITCH
AND SO IT'LL BE A STEP THERE
AND THEN THE PORCH SCREEN PORCH
ITSELF IS PUSHED BACK FOUR
INCHES FROM THE PLAINS OF THE
EXISTING WALLS.
SO IT HAS EVEN MORE
DIFFERENTIATION AND IT'LL BE
OFF SCREEN.
SO THE MATERIAL WILL ALSO
DIFFERENTIATED AS A SEPARATE
NEWER OBJECT ON THE FACADE
OF THE HOUSE IS TO MAKE IT OR
DENHA FOR CLARIFICATION.
THANK YOU.
OK, THE QUESTION GOING TO BE
ONE OF STORES OR ANY OF THOSE
WINDOWS.
YES.
THE WINDOW THAT'S GOING TO BE
LOST TO THE SLIDING DOOR IS ONE
OF THE ORIGINAL WINDOWS TO THE
HOUSE AS BEST I CAN TELL IT'S A
OLDER DUMBLEYUNG WINDOW.
IT'S SO INTO IT IT'S LIKE FOUR
INCHES OUT OF THE CORNER THERE
.
YEAH, YEAH.
YEAH.
I JUST DON'T HAVE A GOOD
PICTURE TO TELL YOU ABOUT THAT
KIND OF LEFT OF YOU IN.
YEAH YEAH.
OK.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION.
OK SEEING NONE WILL GO TO A
VOTE OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES YES YES
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU WE LIKE REPEAT BUSINESS SO
THANK YOU.
OK
YOU'RE MOVING ON.
COULD YOU TELL ME WHO SUPPORTED
THAT MOTION ONE OF YOU THREE.
HI JENNIFER I THINK YEAH THANK
YOU.
THANKS A LOT.
YEAH I WAS FORTUNATE MOVE BY
FORTNER SECONDED BY ROSS.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
OUR JOB JOBS MORE DIFFICULT
WHEN COMMISSIONER WHITE IS NOT
HERE.
OK MOVING ON EF FOUR TORNADO
43RD STREET THIS ONE STORY
VERNACULAR FRAME HOUSE WITH
SIDE GABLED ROOF AND FRONT
FACING GABAL PORCH WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN NINETEEN FORTY
THE HOME OF WILLIAM AND EVELYN
MAHE OWNERSHIP REMAINED IN THE
FAMILY THROUGH THE NINETEEN
SEVENTIES INSIDE EDITION THE
NORTH WITH THE BASEMENT LEVEL
FRONT FACING GARAGE WAS ADDED
IN NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE
REPLACING A SIDE BAY WINDOW
APPROVED ROOF WORK AT REAR
EDITION IN TWO THOUSAND SIX
SITES ON THE WEST SIDE OF THIRD
STREET SOUTH OF COOKE AND IT
TOUCHES THE SOUTHERN BOUNDARY
OF THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT THE APPLICATIVE
SEEKING TO SEEK APPROVAL TO
MODIFY THE NORTH ADDITIONS
THREE ELEVATIONS.
SO ALL OF THIS WORK IS ON A
MODERN ADDITION AND I'M JUST
GOING TO GO THROUGH AND SHOW
YOU ON THE PICTURES WHAT THEY'D
LIKE TO DO MANY BUT NOT ALL
OF THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN
REPLACED IN THE HOUSE.
THERE ARE SOME OLD ONES.
THIS IS THE WHEN I SAID THAT
THIS REPLACED A BAY WINDOW NOW
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE BAY
WINDOW IS.
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS A LITTLE
BIT ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
SITE VISIT THESE WINDOWS IN THE
FRONT HAVE ALREADY BEEN
REPLACED BUT THERE ARE A FEW
OLD ONES THIS IS THE EIGHTIES
EDITION.
THE FIRST WORK ITEM IS TO TAKE
OUT THIS PICTURE WINDOW AND
REPLACE IT WITH TWO DOUBLE HUNG
WINDOWS.
SHOW YOU ON THE DRAWINGS IN A
MINUTE.
THERE'S A ROW OF GLASS BLOCK
WINDOWS ON THIS SOUTH SORRY
NORTH SIDE ELEVATION OF THE
GARAGE UPSTAIRS ABOVE THE
GARAGE THAT WOULD ALSO BE
REPLACED WITH TWO DOUBLE HUNG
WINDOWS AND THEN ON THE BACK
OF THAT ADDITION THERE ARE OR
WERE WINDOWS UNDERNEATH THIS
BOARDING AND THIS WHOLE THING
WOULD COME OUT AND BE REPLACED
WITH SOMETHING OF A MUCH MORE
APPROPRIATE AND MODEST SIZE AND
THEN A REAR DECK WOULD BE ADDED
TO EXPAND OFF OF THIS EXISTING
REAR ENTRY.
SO THAT WOULD RUN THE WIDTH
MORE OR LESS OF THESE WINDOWS.
THE RAILING ON THE DECK WOULD
MATCH THIS WOULDN'T REALLY
THAT'S ALREADY THERE ON THIS
PART OF THE DECK AND REALLY
IT'S A PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION.
THERE'S LATTICE SKIRTING.
YOU CAN SEE THESE ARE THE NEW
WINDOWS THAT ARE MUCH SMALLER
THAN THOSE EXISTING ONES BACK
THERE NEW FRENCH DOORS.
YOU CAN SEE THE NEW WINDOWS ON
THE BACK OF THE GARAGE AND HERE
ARE THE NEW WINDOWS THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE REALLY ALL OF THIS
WORK IS TERRIFIC AND REALLY IS
GOING TO MAKE THE WHOLE
ADDITION LOOK A LOT MORE
SYMPATHETIC TO THE HOUSE AND
MATERIALS WOULD MATCH FOR
INFILL IN THE BACK HERE THE
LATTICE IS CEDAR.
THERE'S COMPOSITE TRIM CEDAR
DECKING WOULD MATCH WHAT'S OVER
HERE ON THE STEPS AND REALLY I
DON'T HAVE A LOT TO ADD.
THIS IS THIS IS A THIS IS A
PRETTY EASY ONE SINCE IT'S ALL
ON A MODERN EDITION ESPECIALLY
YOU CAN SEE THE EXTENT OF THE
DECK HERE.
IT'S A PRETTY BIG DECK.
IT'LL BE IT'LL BE VERY USER
FRIENDLY.
I THINK I ALREADY WROTE TO
STANDARD NINE AND THEN FROM
BUILDING SITE IT'S NOT
RECOMMENDED TO INTRODUCE NEW
CONSTRUCTION TO THE BUILDING
SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
AND TEXTURE WHICH DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT THIS WORK
DOES THAT WINDOWS IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN INSTALL
ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON RARE OR
NON CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATIONS IF REQUIRED BY THE
NEW USE AND THIS IS A STANDARD
FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION NOT
NECESSARILY AUDITIONS BUT IT
SAYS IT'S APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
THE SPACING PLACEMENT SCALE
ORIENTATION PORTION PATTERN AND
SIZE OF WINDOW AND DOOR
OPENINGS IN NEW BUILDINGS TO BE
COMPATIBLE WITH SURROUNDING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
I THINK WHEN WE REVISE THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES WE SHOULD
REUSE THIS ONE ON ADDITIONS AS
WELL BECAUSE IT'S IT'S A VERY
WELL WORDED I NOT RECOMMEND
INTRODUCING A NEW DESIGN.
IT'S NOT COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING.
FOR NEXT IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL A DECK IN THE REAR
OF THE PROPERTY THAT IS
SUBORDINATE PORTION OF THE
BUILDING AND TO INSTALL
RAILINGS MADE OF WOOD.
I BELIEVE THAT ALL OF THIS WORK
IS APPROPRIATE AND MEETS ALL
OF THE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER MYSELF
AND COMMISSIONER WILLIS.
WE'RE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
DO YOU WANT TO GIVE YOUR
REPORT?
I AGREE WITH THE STAFF REPORT
RECOMMENDATION.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO AGREE AND I'LL JUST
MENTION THAT THIS HOUSE IS
OVERLOOKING WURSTER PARK AND
YOU KNOW, IF THE LAST HOUSE HAD
A SORT OF AN EXPANSIVE VIEW
THIS ONE IS THAT YOU KNOW AND
THEN SOME IT'S REALLY BECAUSE
IT'S SORT OF UP ON A HILL
WURSTER PARK KIND OF GOES DOWN
AND IT IT'S QUITE AN INCREDIBLE
VIEW OUT OF THE BACK.
I CAN KIND OF I UNDERSTAND WHAT
THEY WERE THINKING WHEN THEY
PUT THOSE ENORMOUS WINDOWS THAT
DIDN'T WORK OUT SO WELL BUT BUT
I KIND OF GET IT IT'S REALLY
QUITE AN INCREDIBLE VIEW AND
PROBABLY REALLY FUN TO TO LIVE
ON THE PARK.
ONE WOULD THINK, OK, SO YEAH.
AND THEN OTHER THAN THAT LIKE
HAS BEEN SAID, ALL THE CHANGES
BEING DONE ON THE ON THE MODERN
PART OF THE HOUSE MAKES THIS I
GUESS SORT OF A CUT AND DRY
APPLICATION.
SO NOW WE'LL ASK THE APPLICANT
TO PLEASE STEP FORWARD AND I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU REALLY HEARD
ANY QUESTIONS
BUT JUST STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS YOU'VE
ALREADY
DONE THAT.
BUT JIMMY BEVILAQUA THIRTY
ELEVEN WAS HERE ON STREET AGAIN
I'M THE DESIGNER FOR THIS.
IT SEEMS PRETTY CUT AND DRY SO
I'LL ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS IF
YOU HAVE ANY GREAT ANY
QUESTIONS.
OK SEEING NONE.
THANK YOU JIMMY.
WE WILL OPEN UP THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
SO NOW THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE HERE BUT IF
YOU'RE IN THE ZOOM ROOM RAISE
YOUR HAND OR HIT STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE AND WE'D LOVE TO
HEAR FROM YOU.
NO ONE IS INDICATING OK, SO IN
THAT CASE I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL ASK
IF THERE IS ANY COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
ON THIS APPLICATION.
OK, THANK YOU.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT EIGHT S 7TH
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE ASSORT
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT A ONE TWO
THREE FOUR STOREY ADDITION WITH
A DECK TO THE BACK THE HOUSE
HAD AN EGRESS WINDOW ON THE
SECOND FLOOR OF THE NORTH
ELEVATION AND INSTALL A MINI
SPLIT AS PROPOSED DOESN'T SOUND
RIGHT TO THE RIGHT AT ALL.
NO IT DOESN'T.
LET'S DO THAT FOR TRANSITION IS
IS WHERE THINGS WENT WRONG.
SURE YOU DO THAT ATO THIRD YEAH
ATO FOR THIRD OK OK SO I GOT IT
RIGHT HERE AT DENHA YEAH.
YES PLEASE.
OK LET'S START THAT AGAIN.
SORRY OK I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUED CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT ATO FOR 3RD
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO MAKE THE FOLLOWING
MODIFICATIONS TO THE NORTH
ADDITION REMOVE A CENTRAL MULVA
WINDOW UNIT AND TWO EQUALLY
SPACED DOUBLE HUNG WINDOWS ON
THE EAST ELEVATION REMOVE THREE
HORIZONTAL GLASS BLOCK WINDOWS
AND REPLACE WITH TWO DOUBLE
HUNG WINDOWS ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION REMOVE ALL LARGE
PICTURE WINDOWS AND REPLACE
THEM WITH A MULTIPLE UNIT AND A
PAIR OF FRENCH DOORS LEADING TO
A NEW NINETEEN FOOT BY 12 FOOT
TWO INCH DEEP WITH A RAILING TO
MATCH THE EXISTING REAR PORCH
AND COACH LIGHTS ON THE WEST
ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING IN THE
SURROUNDING AREA MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARD NINE AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
AND WINDOWS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
DECKS.
DO I HAVE A SECOND SECOND?
OK, THANK YOU.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
ROSS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER.
DO WE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
WELL I THINK THE WORK SOUNDS
WAY MORE APPROPRIATE.
THEY DON'T WANT A THREE FOUR
STOREY ADDITION SO I SUPPORT
THE PROJECT.
YEAH, I MEAN THIS PROJECT LIKE
I SAID BEFORE IS PRETTY CLEAR
WHAT'S GOING ON.
IT'S REPAIRING FIRST OF ALL
SOME SOME ITEMS ON THE
ADDITIONS THAT MAYBE SEEM A
LITTLE AWKWARD IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
IT'S REMOVING THOSE AND
REPLACING THEM WITH WITH
COMPATIBLE ITEMS ALL ON THE
EDITION.
SO OK, LET'S MOVE TO A VOTE ALL
IN FAVOR OF THIS MOTION PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES.
ALL OPPOSED.
PLEASE SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
THE REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU JAMIE.
YOU YOU TOO.
OK, MOVING ON TO EF FIVE TWO
ZERO EIGHT S SEVENTH BACK TO
SEVENTH STREET THAT THIS ONE
AND THREE QUARTER STORY
ITALIANATE GABAL FRONTYARD
FEATURES A CUT STONE FOUNDATION
WIDE BOARD TRIM IN THE EAVES TO
OVER TWO WINDOWS AND WOOD
SHUTTERS THOUGH THEY'RE NOT
ORIGINAL WOOD SHUTTERS BUT
THEY'RE SHUTTERS.
IT COULD BE OLDER BUT THE HOUSE
APPEARS IN THE EIGHTEEN NINETY
FOUR CITY DIRECTORY AS TWELVE S
SEVENTH STREET, THE HOME
OF PAINTER FREDERICK HUNE IN
1897 F ALLMENDINGER OCCUPIED
THE HOUSE HOUSE FIRST APPEARS
ON SANDBORN FIRE INSURANCE MAPS
AND ITS CURRENT FOOTPRINT MINUS
THE FRONT AND BACK PORCHES.
THAT WAS IN 1916.
THAT WAS WHEN THE SANBORN'S
CAUGHT UP TO SEVEN STREET.
A SMALL AUTOMOBILE GARAGE WAS
ADDED BY NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE
AND THE CURRENT LARGE GARAGE
WAS BUILT BETWEEN NINETEEN
TWENTY FIVE AND THIRTY ONE AND
IT IS SHOWN AS AN AUTO REPAIR
SHOP IN NINETEEN THIRTY ONE THE
HIP ROOF HALF WIDE FRONT PORCH
WAS ADDED AFTER NINETEEN FORTY
EIGHT.
THIS SITE IS THE WEST SIDE OF S
75TH STREET SOUTH OF WEST
WASHINGTON AND NORTH OF WEST
LIBERTY IN THE APPLICANT
SEEKING APPROVAL TO ADD A ONE
AND THREE QUARTER STOREY
ADDITION WITH A DECK TO THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE AT AN EGRESS
WINDOW ON THE SECOND FLOOR
OF THE NORTH ELEVATION AND
INSTALL A MINI SPLIT.
ALL RIGHT.
RUNNING THROUGH THE PHOTOS THIS
HOUSE IS REMARKABLY ORIGINAL.
YOU DON'T SEE THIS MUCH
INTEGRITY, YOU KNOW, LEFT IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE IT'S ALSO
JUST OOZING CHARM.
THE FRONT PORCH IS OBVIOUSLY
MODERN BUT IT'S VERY
COMPATIBLE.
YOU CAN SEE THE COOL CUT STONE
FOUNDATION.
THIS LITTLE ATTIC WINDOW IS
MORE THAN LIKELY AN KNEW AND
THERE'S ONE MATCHING ON THE
BACK.
THIS IS AN ORIGINAL PUMP OUT
AND AN ADDITION PROPOSED
DOESN'T EVEN TOUCH THAT WHICH I
DO APPRECIATE.
THIS TREE IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE APPEARS ON
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN AERIAL
PHOTOS AND HAS FORCED THE
APPLICANTS, THE HOMEOWNER AND
THEIR ARCHITECTS TO WORK AROUND
IT IN ORDER TO TRY TO SAVE IT
AND THE ADDITIONS THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING IS ON HILCORP.
HERE'S IN ORDER TO MINIMIZE THE
AMOUNT OF EXCAVATING THAT HAS
TO TAKE PLACE AROUND THAT TREE.
YOU CAN SEE IT HERE ON THE LEFT
THERE IS A BILKO DOOR DOROTHEE
DOOR HERE THAT WOULD REMAIN
KEEP THAT IN MIND AS WE'RE
WALKING THROUGH THE ADDITION
ORIGINAL WINDOWS ON THE BACK
THE DOOR ORIGINAL I DIDN'T GET
UP CLOSE TO IT TO LOOK AT IT ON
THE BACK BUT A NEW REAR DOOR I
BELIEVE IS PROPOSED THOUGH IT
SAID SOMETHING ABOUT REUSING
THE EXISTING ONE.
SO I'D LIKE TO LEARN A LITTLE
MORE ABOUT THAT.
HERE'S THE BIG TREE.
IT'S IT'S IT'S JUST SLIGHTLY
PAST THE LINE OF THE EDGE
OF THE DOOR HERE.
THIS WINDOW WOULD BE REMOVED BY
THE ADDITION BUT ALSO IT WOULD
BE SLID OVER.
SO IT'S MORE CENTRAL OVER HERE
BECAUSE AS YOU'LL SEE IN A
SECOND, IF IT REMAINS WHERE IT
IS, IT WOULD JUST BE LOOKING AT
ADDITIONS BECAUSE THE ADDITION
POPS BACK OUT HERE AND SORRY I
SHOULDN'T EVEN BE EXPLAINING IT
RIGHT NOW BUT KEEP YOUR EYE ON
THIS WINDOW.
IT'S GOING TO MOVE THIS IS THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE OF THE HOUSE A
SMALL WELL AN EGRESS WINDOW
EGRESSED SIZE WINDOW IS
PROPOSED ALIGNED WITH THIS
FIRST FLOOR WINDOW BECAUSE THE
NEW ADDITIONS ON THE BACK WILL
REMOVE THIS REQUIRED EGRESS
FROM THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
AND HERE YOU CAN SEE THE PRETTY
COOL THE GARAGE.
I'LL COME BACK TO THE SLIDE IN
A SECOND BECAUSE MR. WILLIS IS
KINDLY STANDING AT THE
APPROXIMATE CORNER OF THE NEW
EDITION AND THIS WAS EXCUSE ME
THIS WAS TAKEN FROM THE STREET.
I'M SORRY.
I'M GOING TO START COUGHING.
HERE ARE OUR COMMISSIONERS
STAND INS FOR THE BACK CORNER
OF THE EDITION
.
THIS IS NOT AN ACTION SHOT
OF COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN THIS IS
A SHOT OF THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR
IN THE BACK YARD TO SHOW HOW
FAR BACK THESE BUILDINGS GO AND
THIS IS A HOUSE TO THE NORTH.
IT ALSO EXTENDS BACK FARTHER
THAN THIS HOUSE TERRY.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
IT'S ONE OF THOSE LEFTOVER COLD
THINGS TO JUST TAKE.
IT DOESN'T GO AWAY.
THIS BRANCH IS ON THE TREE THAT
WE'RE TRYING NOT TO IMPACT BUT
WE'LL NEED TO BE REMOVED IN
ORDER TO PUT THE ADDITIONAL
BACK THERE BEGRUDGE.
ALL RIGHT.
RUNNING THROUGH DRAWINGS WE
HAVE A ONE TO THREE QUARTER
STORE EDITION WITH A DECK OFF
THE BACK THIS OBVIOUSLY THIS
HOUSE IS VERY LOW AND IF THEY
JUST EXTRUDE IT OFF THE BACK
THEY WOULD PROBABLY NOT GET
ENOUGH HEAD HEIGHT TO HAVE A
FULL SECOND FLOOR.
SO THEY HAVE USED THESE THESE
SMALLER CABLES TO TO POP THAT
ROOF UP.
THERE'S A GOOD EXPLANATION IN
THE PACKET OF WHAT'S GOING ON
BACK HERE.
THIS IS THE EXISTING NORTH
ELEVATION.
IT'S GOT A SKYLIGHT UP HERE.
HERE'S A TREE EXISTING SOUTH
ELEVATION WITH THE VERY COOL
PUMP OUT AND HERE'S THE BILL
CAWDOR.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
EXISTING FRONT OF THE HOUSE
EXISTING OK, HERE'S THIS PLAN.
YOU CAN SEE THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE ADDITIONS.
IT'S INSET AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE HOUSE AND THEN
BUMPS BACK OUT TO ALIGN WITH
IT.
AND THIS IS THAT BASEMENT DOOR
AND IT'S WORKING AROUND THE
BASEMENT DOOR NORMALLY I WOULD
SAY I WOULDN'T RECOMMEND DOING
THIS BUMPING BACK OUT HERE BUT
THERE'S SO LIMITED IN THE WIDTH
OF THIS RARE EDITION ANYWAY IT
WOULD BECOME JUST A BOWLING
ALLEY OF A ROOM IF THEY KEPT IT
INSET ALL THE WAY BACK AND JUST
PUSHED IT OUT EVEN FARTHER.
SO I THINK THAT IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO MAKE A LITTLE
CONCESSION THAT THEY AND THEY
MADE IT DEEP ENOUGH THAT IT'S
NOT JUST A FEW INCHES OR
SOMETHING.
IT'S A SIGNIFICANT ENOUGH GAP
THAT YOU'LL BE ABLE TO VISUALLY
SEE WHERE THE OR THE CORNER
OF THE HOUSES FLOORPLAN WE'VE
GOT AN OFFICE OF MUDROOM.
HERE'S THE DECK ON THE BACK
FOOTPRINT CALCULATIONS BOTH THE
FOOTPRINT AND THE FLOOR AREA
CAME IN UNDER 50 PERCENT WHICH
IS APPROPRIATE AND HERE THE
ELEVATION RISE THERE IS
SEMANTICIST PANELING HERE.
REMEMBER THAT THIS IS THIS IS
BUILT ON PIERS.
SO IT'S BASICALLY LIKE SKIRTING
THAT YOU'D FIND ON A PORCH BUT
THEY'RE USING JUST PANELS
THERE.
THERE'S A CABLE RAIL SYSTEM.
THE WINDOWS ARE ONE OF OUR ONES
THEY'RE CLAD AND THE SIDING IS
HERTIE WITH A SIX INCH EXPOSURE
.
HERE'S THE THE THE THE HATCH
DOOR TO THE BASEMENT.
THERE IS A FAIRLY LARGE MINI
SPLIT UNIT AND HERE'S THE TREE
IN THE BACK
.
I WOULD LIKE TO CONFIRM THAT
NOTHING HAS TO GO ON
UNDERGROUND UNDER THE MINI
SPLIT THAT THE ATTACHMENT WILL
BE WELL IT'LL THERE'S NOTHING
ON THE GROUND BECAUSE THERE'S
NOT EVEN A WALL THERE.
SO TAKE IT BACK NOW AND THE
REAR ELEVATION PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT IS A SKINNY ADDITION FOR
FOUR FOUR ALREADY STATED
REASONS AND YOU CAN SEE OUR
TREE HERE OFF TO THE SIDE
ON
THE EAST SIDE THIS IS THE THE
GABLE THAT YOU'D BE LOOKING AT.
CAN YOU GO BACK TO YES OR ARE
YOU COMING TO THE MOVING WINDOW
?
A MOVING WINDOW?
OH, IT'S RIGHT HERE THIS IS THE
WINDOW THAT WAS MOVED OVER
PROBABLY FOUR OR FIVE FEET.
THIS IS THE OLD WINDOW AND IT'S
NO SO THEY ARE USING YEAH.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
AND SOME MODELS I DID
APPRECIATE THAT THE ARCHITECT
REALLY TOOK THE TIME TO TO GO
THROUGH THIS ALL WITH ME.
WE TALKED ABOUT WHETHER IT
WOULD BE BETTER TO FLIP THIS
GABAL OVER ONTO THE OTHER SIDE
DECIDED THAT THIS WORKED BETTER
FOR VARIOUS REASONS AND IT'S
IT'S NOT A HUGE ADDITION BUT
IT'S A PRETTY SMALL HOUSE TO
START WITH SO IT LOOKS BIGGER
BY COMPARISON.
SO I'VE BEEN THROUGH STANDARD
TO STANDARD FIVE SAYS THAT
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS FEATURES,
FINISHES AND CONSTRUCTION
TECHNIQUES ARE EXAMPLES
OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
I'VE READ TO NINE AND TEN
ALREADY AND I'VE READ MOST
OF THE ADDITION GUIDELINES
EXCEPT DESIGNING A NEW EDITION
IS NOT RECOMMENDED THAT IT'S
SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATION TO
THE START BUILDING OUT OUT
OF PROPORTION THUS DIMINISHING
HISTORIC CHARACTER
FOR BUILDING
SITE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
EXTERIOR EDITIONS WHICH ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE WHICH
PRESERVE THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
BUILDING OR BUILDINGS AND THE
LANDSCAPE.
THERE IS SOME STATEMENT ON THE
PLANS ABOUT THE EFFORTS THAT
THEY'LL BE GOING TO TO PRESERVE
THAT TREE AND FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
CONSTRUCT AN ADDITION THAT
SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGES THE
PROPORTION OF BUILT MASS TO
OPEN SPACE ON THE INDIVIDUAL
SITE FROM A RESIDENTIAL
LANDSCAPE FEATURES IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN MATURE TREES AND THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDING
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACES.
FINALLY, IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
PRESERVE AND MAINTAIN MATURE
TREES, HEDGES AND OTHER
HISTORICAL PLANTINGS.
OK, ALL RIGHT LET ME SEE IF I
MISSED ANYTHING BUT THIS IS A
LARGE LOT.
IT'S AN ORIGINAL SIXTY SIX FIVE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO FOOT
QUITE A LOT.
THERE'S THERE'S PLENTY OF ROOM
FOR AN ADDITIONAL IT'S REALLY
THAT PESKY TREE THAT'S GETTING
IN THE WAY AND REQUIRING A
SOMEWHAT CREATIVE ADDITION TO
GO ON THE BACK HERE THE HOUSE
IS CURRENTLY NINE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY SQUARE FEET AND THE
PROPOSED ADDITION ADDS FOUR
HUNDRED AND FIFTY EIGHT SQUARE
FEET AND WE DIDN'T REALLY TALK
I DIDN'T REALLY TALK HERE ABOUT
THE PROPOSED WINDOW ON THE
NORTH SIDE ELEVATION.
LET ME RUN BACK UP TO THAT A
SECOND.
YEAH, IT'S RIGHT HERE.
IT'S THIS ONE.
NO SHUTTERS ARE PROPOSED.
IT'S ALIGNED WITH THIS FIRST
FLOOR WINDOW WHICH I THINK IS
AN APPROPRIATE PLACE FOR IT.
IT'S A CASEMENT BUT IT HAS A
FALSE MOUNTAIN ACROSS THE
MIDDLE IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE IT AS SMALL AN OPENING AS
POSSIBLE AND STILL MEET EGRESS
REQUIREMENTS.
SO THAT IS IT FROM STAFF.
I DO BELIEVE THAT THIS THIS
PROPOSAL MEETS THE STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES.
IT IS APPROPRIATE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MYSELF.
COMMISSIONER WILLIS, WE'RE ON
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
WOULD YOU GIVE THE REPORT
PLEASE?
I THINK IT'S A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION AND
I AGREE WITH STAFF
RECOMMENDATION.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO AGREE WITH WHAT I'VE
HEARD SO FAR AND I WILL JUST
ECHO THE THE AMOUNT OF SPACE
AVAILABLE IN THE BACKYARD IS IS
AMPLE.
SO THIS ADDITION WILL NOT YOU
KNOW, IT'LL FEEL IT'LL FEEL
FINE IN THE BACKYARD.
THE GARAGE IS IMPRESSIVELY
WIDE.
IT'S LIKE THREE QUARTERS OF THE
WIDTH OF THAT PROPERTY AND YEAH
I WONDER WHAT THE SQUARE YOU
KNOW IT'S PROBABLY AS MUCH AS
THE ADDITION SO YEAH.
AND LIKE WE SAW TO THE ONE SIDE
THERE'S THERE'S SORT OF AN
APARTMENT AND THEN THE OTHER
SIDE IS A IS HAS A QUITE DEEP
ADDITION ALREADY.
SO THIS THIS WILL BE COMPATIBLE
TO TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK THAT YOU WILL BE ABLE
TO SEE THIS EDITION QUITE
EASILY FROM LIKE THE SIDES
OBVIOUSLY FROM FROM THE RIGHT
AWAY JUST BECAUSE IT'S THE FULL
WIDTH OF A PROPERTY AND THE
HOUSE ITSELF IS YOU KNOW, AS
ALREADY STATED IT'S JUST IT'S
IT'S NOT TAKING MUCH OF THE
FRONT YARD LET'S SAY SO SO
YEAH, YOU'LL BE ABLE TO SEE IT
AND THAT'S WHY WE APPRECIATE
THE THE THE DESIGNER TAKING
CARE IN AND HOW IT WAS DESIGNED
SO WITH THAT LET'S HAVE THE
APPLICANT COME FORWARD IF THEY
ARE HERE BUT MAYBE AROUND THIS
ROOM LET ME GET OUT.
I DON'T SEE THEM HERE SO SO
LET'S LET'S GET THEM ON THE
ZOOM SCREEN AND PLEASE PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AND YOU
CAN COMMENT FOR UP TO FIVE
MINUTES AND THEN WE MAY ASK YOU
SOME QUESTIONS.
WELL, JASON IS LOGGING IN HERE
IF ANYBODY ELSE THAT'S IN THE
ZOOME ROOM WANTS TO BE PROMOTED
I'M HAPPY TO DO SO IF YOU RAISE
YOUR HAND LOOKS LIKE WE'VE GOT
SOME JOE WE DO THAT THE THE
OWNER JOHNNY CARSON IS HERE AS
WELL AS A DESIGNER AND MY STAFF
NIKOLA AND YOU WANT TO THEY
WANT TO PARTICIPATE.
THEY'RE WELCOME TO RAISE THEIR
NOT FIELD ANY QUESTIONS TO WELL
THANK YOU.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS.
MY NAME IS JASON AND THE
ARCHITECT ON THIS PROJECT.
I LIVE AT THIRTY FORTY SIX WITH
AVENUE TO OUR PRESENTING FROM I
AGREE WITH ALMOST THAT COMMENT
THUS FAR I THINK JOE
COVERED ALL THE THINGS THAT WE
DISCUSSED IN DEPTH.
WE WENT TO EXTREME LENGTHS TO
DO OUT EVERY EFFORT I THINK
POSSIBLE TO SALVAGE OR SAVE THE
TREES AND ARE TRYING TO BE
SENSITIVE TO THE NEEDS OF THE
CLIENT IN TERMS OF LIVING IN AN
800 OR TWENTY SQUARE FOOT HOUSE
.
ALSO BE SENSITIVE TO THE SITE.
SO HAPPY TO ANSWER TO QUESTIONS
THAT THE COMMISSIONERS MIGHT
HAVE AS WELL.
THANK YOU JASON.
WITHOUT GOING MAYBE INTO TOO
MUCH DETAIL, CAN YOU EXPLAIN A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT THE
HELICAL ANCHORS WILL LOOK LIKE
OR WHAT WILL WE SEE FROM THE
OUTSIDE?
BASICALLY IT'S REALLY OUR
CONCERN.
SO WILL ANY OF THAT BE SEEN
FROM FROM THE EXTERIOR?
NO, IT WILL BE COVERED BY THE
SCREENING THAT'S GOING AROUND
THE EXTERIOR OF THE DECKS
ACTUALLY.
WHAT IF YOU'RE FAMILIAR WHO
APPEARS TO BE A VERY LARGE
SCREW'S I GUESS YOU COULD CALL
THEM THAT GO INTO THE URBAN
WITH YOU A MACHINE THAT DRIVES
THEM DOWN AND REGISTER THE
AMOUNT OF BEARING CAPACITY THAT
THE SOIL THEY'RE BEING DRIVEN
INTO HAS AND SO YOU CAN USE TO
REACH THE PROPER BORKOWSKI FOR
THE ADDITION AND YOU
ESSENTIALLY JUST HAVE A STEEL
TUBE THAT COMES OUT AND YOU
CONNECT TO THE UNDERSIDE OF THE
STRUCTURE TO THAT.
BUT WE'LL BE COVERING ALL
OF THAT
WITH THE CEMENT
PANELING THAT WILL WRAP THE
SKIRT.
VERY GOOD.
THANK.
DO ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS LIKE NOT OK SO THE
THE NEXT STEP IS THE PUBLIC
HEARING BUT WE'RE GOING TO
PAUSE ON THAT FOR A SECOND.
SO CAN YOU SUMMARIZE THE THE
MATERIALS LIKE THE CLADDING
MATERIALS AND HOW YOU
DIFFERENTIATE IN THE ADDITION
FROM THE EXISTING STRUCTURE?
>> SURELY THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE I BELIEVE HAS A VERY
TIGHT EXPOSURE WITH SOCIETY AND
WE ARE DOING ESSENTIALLY A HARD
HARD HITTING PANEL OR
SEMANTICIST CITING HORIZONTAL
LOPSIDEDNESS SIMILAR TO THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE BUT WITH A
SLIGHTLY LARGER EXPOSURE IT
WILL PROBABLY BE PAINTED TO
MATCH THE EXISTING COLOR SO
THAT IT WOULD KIND OF FIT IT
CONTEXTUALLY BUT VISUALLY IT
WOULD HAVE A DIFFERENT SCALE
AND APPEARANCE AND WITH THAT I
BELIEVE WITH THAT ESTHETIC IN
THE FOUNDATION SUCH THAT YOU
CAN I THINK IT'S VERY APPARENT
WHICH PART IS THE ADDITION WITH
THAT STABAT VERSUS THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE.
SO YOU KNOW, WE DEFINITELY
TRIED TO BE SENSITIVE TO
DISTINGUISHING IT BUT ALSO THE
FITTING OF THE TEXTURE.
YEAH, VERY GOOD.
ANY ANY FOLLOW UPS OR SHOULD WE
MOVE ON?
OK, THANK YOU JASON.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AT THE MOMENT.
IS THAT OK?
ALL RIGHT.
SO I'D NOW LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ON THIS APPLICATION.
I'M NOT SEEING ANYONE HERE HERE
IN THE SAME ROOM AND WANT TO
SPEAK PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND OR
HIT STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
RIGHT.
NO ONE IS INDICATING VERY GOOD
.
I WILL THEN CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION AND I WILL ASK IF
ANY COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION.
I COULD DO IT NOW.
THANK YOU.
OK, I'M GOING TO ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE APPROPRIATENESS FOR
THE APPLICATION A TOOL TO 08 S
7TH STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A ONE IN THREE FOUR STORY
ADDITION WITH A DECK TO THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE AT AN EGRESS
WINDOW ON THE SECOND FLOOR THE
NORTH OVASCIENCE AND INSTALL A
MINI SPLIT AS PROPOSED THE
WORKERS COMPATABLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING IN THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE NINE AND 10
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE IN ADDITIONS AS WELL AS
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR
THE GUIDELINES FOR GUIDELINES
FOR ALL EDITIONS OF THANK YOU
AND I GET OK THANK YOU.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
ROSS AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WILLIS.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION STRAIGHT FORWARD?
OK, ANYTHING ELSE?
OK YEAH I DO AGREE THAT THIS IS
A STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
I FEEL LIKE THE THE HOUSE
ITSELF IS IS JUST HAS A NICE
SIMPLE SHAPE AND SO IT'S
DIFFICULT TO TO BE MAYBE
COMPATIBLE WITHOUT WITH WITH
ALL THE CHALLENGES OF PROGRAM
AND EVERYTHING LIKE THAT.
WHAT YOU HAVE TO DO INSIDE THE
HOUSE TO MAKE THE OUTSIDE
ACTUALLY COMPATIBLE AND AND I
THINK THAT THIS THIS PROJECT
DOES A GOOD JOB DOING THAT BY
USING THE HYPHEN IN PARTICULAR
IT SEEMS TO ME TO TO JUST
DIFFERENT ENOUGH WHILE
REMAINING COMPATIBLE AND I'M
SURE THIS WAS A VERY
CHALLENGING PROJECT TO DESIGN
JUST BECAUSE OF THE THE TREE
AND ALL OF THE INTERIOR
REQUIREMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS
FROM THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
SO WITH WITH NO FURTHER ADO
THEN LET'S MOVE TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION AND HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE CITY
BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
I LOVE YOU TOO.
HOP ON.
OK I'VE LOST MY AGENDA SO I'M
GOING TO GO ONLINE NOW BECAUSE
POINT I WANT TO SHOW ME I'M
DOING THREE WHEN IT'S ALL
RIGHT.
SO THAT WAS THE LAST HEARING
THAT'S GOING ON.
ALL RIGHT.
AND SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
TO NEW BUSINESS G AND I DO NOT
BELIEVE THERE IS ANY NEW
BUSINESS AND SO WE'LL MOVE ON
TO THE MINUTES AND I DON'T
BELIEVE YOU HAVE ANY MINUTES.
I DON'T THINK WE DID HAVE NO
SPOKESMAN SO THERE'S NO NEED
FOR APPROVAL.
I WILL ASK HERE NOW IN PART I
IF THERE'S ANY REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS' SEEING NONE WE
WILL MOVE ON TO ASSIGNMENT'S
AND I WILL PASS IT OFF TO
DESPATCHER HERE FOR
ASSIGNMENT'S WE ARE LOOKING AT
APRIL 10 AT NOON FOR REVIEW
COMMITTEE FOR THE THURSDAY
APRIL 13 REGULAR MEETING.
THIS IS OUR LAST NOON REVIEW
COMMITTEE FOR A WHILE I
BELIEVE.
YEAH IF YOU GET DESPERATE THIS
EASTER MONDAY IF THAT MEANS
ANYTHING TO ANYBODY.
OH YEAH.
YES RIGHT YEAH.
LET'S GO SAY GET I COULD DO
THAT.
I MEAN ONCE WE GET TO THE FIVE
O'CLOCK YOU'RE GOOD.
YEAH I'LL DO IT.
I THINK I CAN I CAN DO IT.
ALL RIGHT KATHY AND DAVE, THANK
YOU BOTH.
PUT ME DOWN FOR THE FIRST FIVE
O'CLOCK.
GOT AN AIR OK PROMISE BUT
THAT'S WHEN I HAVE TO GO.
OK, WELL LET'S GO TO REPORTS
FROM STAFF AND VERY QUICKLY
MARCH 18 IS A RETREAT.
I'VE SET THE AGENDA ALL SET UP.
I'M WORKING HARD ON IT AND
WE'RE GOING TO END UP JUST BACK
IN A SITTING ROOM AGAIN I THINK
MAYBE EVEN CITY HALL WHICH
WOULD SORT OF BE NOVEL BECAUSE
NONE OF YOU HAVE PROBABLY BEEN
IN THE MEETING DOWNSTAIRS IN
CITY HALL FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS
SO MAYBE THAT WOULDN'T BE SO
BAD OR WE COULD GO TO A PARK.
THE LIBRARY WAS SUGGESTED THEY
HAVE SOME GREAT ROOMS BUT WE
CAN'T GET INTO THEM UNTIL TEN
SO WE COULDN'T REALLY START
UNTIL TEN THIRTY SO WE WOULDN'T
GET OUT OF ONE THIRTY AND I'D
REALLY RATHER JUST BE DONE IN
THE MORNING AND GET ON WITH OUR
SATURDAY.
IF ANYONE FEELS STRONGLY ABOUT
GOING TO THE LIBRARY SPEAK UP
BUT OK ALL RIGHT SO I'LL LET
YOU KNOW WHERE WE'RE GOING TO
BE IN WHICH CITY FACILITY
THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> MOVING ON THEN TO OUR
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
ANY CONCERNS?
NO CONCERNS.
GOOD.
HAVE WE HAD ANY COMMUNICATIONS
?
I DON'T BELIEVE WE DO.
THERE'S THERE WAS THE BROADCAST
ONE LISTED ON HERE BUT THAT WAS
A COMMUNICATION FROM YOU GUYS
TO CITY COUNCIL.
>> SO YOU'VE ALREADY SEEN IT.
VERY GOOD.
IN THAT CASE WE'RE MOVING ON TO
AN ADJOURNMENT.
I NOW CLOSE THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION MEETING FOR
MARCH 9TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.